in this video we are going to make a
simple open the door with key game in
the game the player needs to pick up the
key to unlock the door by going through
the unlocked door into a second room the
player wins the tool is built with two
parts the world builder and the puzzle
editor the world builder adds scenes and
objects the puzzle editor is the place
where you make puzzles and create
connections between scenes and objects
by clicking on the play button you can
preview your game by clicking on the
menu icon you can build the game and
save your progress
first let's set up the scene we need two
scenes an entrance and a key a scene is
a game design term in this game you can
think of a scene as a room choose a
backdrop image from the gallery and drag
it to the canvas area a backdrop image
is what the scene looks like it can't be
clicked or moved it's just there in the
background now that we have our first
room let's add a door to it a door can
be anything it can be a mouse hole in
the wall or event we're going to use a
simple closed door click on the
entrances category on the gallery to
pick a door drag the door into the
canvas you can edit details like the
name and size of the door in the
property panel on the right side of the
canvas area you can give hints to the
player from the property panel a hint
can give information or clues to the
player in the game we also need to add
the key into the scene click on the keys
category on the gallery to pick a key
drag the key into the canvas a key can
be anything such as a hammer or a clock
in this video we are going to use a
normal key next we need to create a new
room click on the add new scene button
on the left side under the asset list
name it and add a backdrop to our new
scene now we have added all the scenes
and objects we need we can now start to
create connections between scenes and
objects click on the puzzle editor tab
at the top then click on the Add button
at the right bottom corner to make a new
puzzle the puzzle is made up of three
parts the goal the way to achieve the
goal and an optional challenge puzzles
challenge the player and make the game
more interesting you can think backward
when making the puzzles identify the
goal of each puzzle and then define a
way to achieve the goal you can also
make it more challenging by adding a
lock in this game there are two puzzles
the first puzzle is that the player
needs to pick up the key and add it to
their saved collection their inventory
the goal here is to get an item and the
item is the key the way to achieve that
is by picking up the key directly click
the looks good button and a card will
appear on the left side of the puzzle
editor you can drag to rearrange the
card wherever you want in the puzzle
editor you can also click on the pencil
icon to edit it now let's make the
second puzzle the player needs to go to
another room through a door that is
locked by the key so our goal here is to
get to another scene and the way to
achieve that is by going through an
entrance in our case the entrance is the
door the door is locked by the key so
the way to unlock it is by using a key
on the door
when the player goes to the second scene
two player wins so we need to set the
second puzzle as the winning condition
great let's click on the play button and
play the game
you
we can build the game by clicking on the
menu button now you have built a game
that you can share with your friends